>> Carl Sagan, once wrote,
"We are a way for the universe
to know itself."
Some part of our being knows
this is where we came from.
We long to return, and we
can, because the cosmos
is also within us.
We're made of star stuff."
But what is this star stuff?
The traditional model of
how a star is formed states,
stars form inside relatively
dense concentrations
of interstellar gas and dust.
When the density reaches a
certain point, stars form.
As romantic as that may
sound, and possibly correct,
electric universe
offers a new theory
on how stars are born that might
shape the way we think they
behave and a new solution to
the arrangement of planets
in our solar system.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> On July 1, 2004, the
Cassini probe entered
Saturn's atmosphere, and for
13 years it studied the planet.
Its mission ended in 2017 when
it was running out of fuel.
The mission team steered Cassini
closer to the surface of Saturn
than ever before and captured
some amazing new data
before it burned up.
They named this
"The Grand Finale."
And on October 5, 2018,
six teams of researchers
published their work
based on the findings
from Cassini's Grand Finale.
And what they discovered was
electric currents connecting
Saturn and the D ring.
>> When the Cassini mission
was heading for Saturn,
I wrote a website article
called Cassini's homecoming.
In other words,
then I was saying,
here we are, we're examining a
home star for the first time,
and I expect there would be
many surprises, which of course,
turned out to be correct.
The very last one was when
the Cassini spacecraft
was directed to orbit
very close to Saturn
on the final few orbits and
go inside the inner ring.
And what did they find?
They found that the electron
density in that ring plane
was far higher than it is
anywhere north or south of it.
This means that
part of Saturn still
has the classic electrical
circuitry, which
Hannes Alfven published, as
any star or any magnetized body
inside the solar system.
The other interesting thing
is that the magnetic field
of Saturn is perfectly aligned
with this rotation axis, which
means that the
standard story of how
the magnetism of a celestial
body is created doesn't work,
because it always relies
on the magnetic pole being
offset from the rotation pole
to maintain the magnetic field.
>> If this is true, how then
could the electric universe
theory explain Saturn
as our home star?
How would that be possible?
Wall Thornhill suggests
we first examine
a new theory on how a star
is born and how it operates.
>> The story of the formation
of the solar system from
the electric universe point
of view is quite different
to the standard approach,
where matter just forms clumps
of material by gravity, which
finally collapses further
to form stars, and then the
planets are just the leftovers
after the star is formed.
None of this has
been shown to work.
The electric universe
model is based on the idea
that, at the galactic
scale, electromagnetism
is the dominant energy
source and the power
behind the formation of stars.
It is a far more effective
force at gathering
material over a large
distance and also
concentrating it powerfully.
It can be seen even in the
lightning bolts on Earth,
it constricts the
atmosphere and heats it
along the thin
lightning channel.
The same kind of thing
happens in molecular clouds
inside our galaxy,
and it has been
shown by infrared telescopes
in space, like the Herschel
telescope, which
has discovered stars
forming like pearls
on a necklace
inside these molecular clouds.
Now the electric universe says
it's not all that complicated.
If it form stars, it can form
bodies of all different sizes
at the same time.
It's been found that there are
numerous brown dwarfs formed
at the same time and also
planetary-sized objects
floating freely, which
is a bit of a puzzle
because planets are
supposed to form
after the stars are
formed from the material
left over by the star.
But if they're free floating,
how did they get there?
This is a puzzle.
It's not at all a puzzle
if all of these bodies
are formed at the same time
along that lightning channel.
And those bodies can
be of different sizes.
The larger ones become
stars because they
form a focus for
electrical activity, which
dominates their vicinity.
>> If planets and stars
formed on a lightning channel,
how does it work?
>> It's a feature of the way
electricity travels through
space, that it forms two
filaments twisted around one
another in a helix, so that when
they enter a cloud of material,
the result of that is to cause
the two filaments to pinch
closer together.
The current density rises.
They glow, and this is
where we see these lightning
bolts in those clouds.
And this is a signature
of electrical formation,
not gravitational.
These cosmic filaments
that I mentioned
are these twin filaments
rotating around one another,
and they're known
in plasma science
as "Birkeland currents."
They're named after
Kristian Birkeland, one
of the pioneers of the
electric universe model, who
is researching in 1900 at
the turn of the century
and doing practical experiments.
And he produced what he called
a terella, a little earth
inside a vacuum
chamber, connected it up
to electrical power and
was able to demonstrate
sunspot activity,
Saturn's rings, and also
auroral behavior.
His initial study was
on the magnetic effects
of auroras, which showed,
to him, that space
is full of charged particles.
And it wasn't
until the space age
that it was finally confirmed.
They were dubbed
"Birkeland currents."
Once you understand that
these cosmic currents,
these filaments, will always
follow the magnetic field,
it allows you to trace the
directions of the currents
in various parts of space.
And what they find is that the
magnetic field along the spiral
arms traces along the arm
into the center of the galaxy.
So there's an electric
current flowing
along each of the spiral alarms
into the center of the galaxy.
And this is very important.
And it's also one of the
bases of hand cell phones
work on the functioning
of galaxies and stars.
>> Wall's theory suggests that
these currents flow between
upper and lower levels of the
galaxy and also side to side.
The galaxy is formed
where the pinch is.
And from that, filaments
are created and pushed
outwards in the
double-helix form.
As the energy spreads out,
it hits more dense material,
thus beginning the formation
of stars along a seemingly
Fibonacci shape.
>> The current that's
flowing along the spiral arms
of a galaxy is concentrated when
it meets more dense material,
like a cloud of dust and gas,
called a "molecular cloud."
When that happens, instead of
being diffuse and invisible,
it pinches down, just
like lightning does.
There's currents flowing
in a lightning storm
before you see any lightning.
Once the lightning
fades, these currents
are still flowing along
thin filaments, which
are invisible because the
current density is not
high enough.
>> So what happens to the
currents that are still
flowing?
And how can they be detected?
>> The answer is that the power
which generated the lightning
bolt still exists, and they are
diffuse electric currents which
are not in the visible spectrum.
They can be detected
by radio telescopes
because they
generate radio noise.
So radio telescopes are one
of the most important type
of telescope to
confirm and to track
these circuits in deep space.
And they're already
beginning to do that
without actually admitting
that what they're finding
is electric current.
Because what the
radio telescopes
do is they track the direction
of the magnetic fields in space
based on the polarization of
the radio signal they receive.
>> While Thornhill's theory
suggests that there are
positive and negative charges in
the universe that create order,
the stars are formed on an anode
circuitry system that seeks
a balance with other planets.
>> The anode is positive.
It just means that there's
a deficiency of electrons
in that body, and
this seems to be
a feature of galaxies as well.
They're trying to replace
a deficit of electrons,
and that's because
they're connected
to an even larger circuit.
All of this circuitry
extends between galaxies,
and they're
discovering this now.
This was a puzzling finding.
The galaxies seem to be
strung like Catherine
works-- fireworks along even
more gigantic cosmic strings.
Within the galaxy,
along the galactic arms,
the current flows in towards
the center and along those arms.
These stars look like street
lights along the power lines.
The planets, on
the other hand, are
free to go wherever they
like after the lightning
strike abates or moves on.
It's at that time that what
I call "electrogravity"
takes over.
One of the problems faced by
standard cosmological thinking
and the theory of Newton's
idea of gravity is that--
it's very hard to capture
objects in space that are
moving relative to one another.
They will just pass one another
and change their directions,
but they will not be
captured, because there's
no means of removing energy
from the object that's
moving past you.
And that's what's
needed for capture.
You have to have
catcher, somebody
who's going to restrict
the movement of this object
past you.
The electric universe
doesn't have this problem
because we have--
as I've talked earlier
about electrical exchanges
between planets--
it can also occur between
stars and planets.
And this is very effective
at capture, it turns out.
The electric universe
says that, very simply,
energy is a measure of
the motion of matter
in relation to all the rest of
the measure in the universe.
In other words, there is
universal connectivity,
which is far different
from the model at present
that we're presented of
the universe of isolation
by huge distances and by time.
And the only connection is
by the puny force of gravity.
The universe is
connected in real time
by the direct electric force.
It is not mediated by any
force at the speed of light,
because the only thing that
travels at the speed of light
is an electromagnetic
disturbance.
As for mass, in the
electric universe,
mass is the response of
matter to the electric force
in the form of distortion
rather than acceleration.
And I say this because, in
the electric universe model,
matter is a repeated pattern, so
that you have the atomic model,
which is very successful.
And when you've got
one successful model,
it's a good idea to see
if you can repeat it
at a different scale.
And if you do so and you say
the electron and the proton
have structure just like
little atomic systems,
then if you give it
a poke electrically,
its response will be to distort
because the charged particles
will tend to rearrange
themselves into the ones that
are orbiting into elliptical
orbits at right angles
to the force.
That's how you get
the magnetic force.
The magnetic force is
always at right angles
to the electric force.
And that's the reason,
because matter,
like electrons and protons,
have a real structure.
>> It turns out this kind of
electrical communication also
happens in biological
systems as well.
Inside our body, we
have electrically
charged particles that
create instant communication
with our body to
keep it running.
This is similar to
how a planet has
instant electrical
communication with the sun
and how it is able to position
itself with it at all times
without getting
out of alignment.
In this theory, there is
constant understanding
of a universe that runs
on electrical charge,
down to the smallest creature
on the planets themselves.
If this is true,
how can we explain
different kinds of stars within
the same electrical circuit?
>> The stars that are being
formed by the cosmic lightning
are then powered by these
diffuse, otherwise invisible,
electric current filaments.
And it is that that determines
the environment of the star
and how it will
function, whether it's
a red star or a bright
white star, a blue giant
or a red dwarf.
All of these things are
based on the size of the body
and its electrical environment.
If the electrical
environment changes,
a star can change very
quickly from one type of star
to another.
And this has been
observed but not
recognized as being a
function of the environment.
And when we come to the bright
stars, the main sequence stars,
the difference there is
that the energy density
is so high that
the plasma develops
what's called "plasma tufts."
These tufts sit just off
the surface of the body,
and they are what produces
all of the bright light.
It produces a spectrum, which
looks rather like a black body.
The beauty of this
particular model
is that the
photosphere, the bright,
shining object we see in
the sky around the sun acts
like a transistor.
It controls the power
flowing through that surface.
So if the sun's
environment changes,
the effect on those
bright stars is
minimized so that our own sun
maintains the same brightness
within a fraction of a percent,
even though, in x-rays, it's
a variable star.
It almost goes out in x-rays,
and then at solar maximum,
it's very bright in x-rays.
The standard story of the life
story of a star is invalid.
A star is not born and
then self-immolates,
becomes a campfire in the
sky until all of its fuels
run out then blows up or
explodes as a supernova.
[EXPLOSION]
None of that story is correct.
The life story of a star is
like that of an individual,
and it depends very
much on its environment.
>> If the life story of a star
depends on its environment,
how then does the
environment change the star?
And is there evidence
of this happening
in our own solar system?
>> The difference between a
red dwarf and a main-sequence
bright star like the sun
is based on the electrical
environment.
The red dwarf is maybe
smaller and has difficulty
in collecting enough electrons
from the surrounding plasma
to satisfy its discharge.
Now plasma is amazing because
it's charged material.
It tends to behave
like a living thing.
So what does it do?
It's shell of charge, the
plasma sheath as it's known,
expands until the surface
area is big enough
to collect all of the electrons
required to satisfy the star's
discharge.
In doing so, it creates
what's called a red anode glow
because all stars
behave as an anode
in the galactic discharge.
We can say that because all
of the features on a star
can be explained very simply as
electrical effects on an anode.
So one of the features
of red stars-- and this
applies to red giants
as well as red dwarfs--
there is no difference in
their actual functioning,
and yet the standard
model would say there is.
A red dwarf is a failed
star, practically.
It's not big enough
to burn properly.
They're not.
They're the same feature,
different size stars
that's all.
So if the electrical environment
of one of those stars changes,
the sheath can expand
or can contract.
Then the question
is, can we identify
the remnant of the brown
dwarf inside the solar system?
And the answer is, the ancients
did it for us very well.
They had no hesitation in
saying that what we regard now
as the planet Saturn
was the former sun.
In fact, the references to the
earlier sun, the same names
were transferred to the
present sun, Helios, Ra, Sol,
all referred
originally to Saturn.
As a brown dwarf, we've tended
to call that brown dwarf
Proto-Saturn because
Proto-Saturn was changed
on entry into the solar system
to become the ringed planet
Saturn.
So we have universal
acceptance of the fact
that Saturn was our home.
The question then is, well, how
did all of this appear to us?
What happened?
As a brown dwarf drifting
through space on its own
with his little entourage
of satellites planets
like the earth and Mars orbiting
about it, inside this red anode
glow, it would have
its own heliosphere.
The heliosphere of the sun
extends out to 100 times
the distance of the
Earth from the sun.
It's a considerable
way up past Pluto.
A brown dwarf star would have
a similarly bloated plasma
sheath at very large distances
from the star itself.
When these two
plasma sheaths meet
is when the two objects,
the brown dwarf and the sun,
see each other electrically
for the first time.
And it's then that
all hell breaks loose
on the minor partner,
the brown dwarf.
And it will undergo flaring.
It will also
develop into a comet
because its voltage now has
shifted from being an anode,
to the galactic
discharge, to being
a cathode inside
the solar system.
And all comets are
negative potential objects,
which are called cathodes,
in a plasma discharge.
And they have very specific
consequences for the object.
The red plasma sheath
of Proto-Saturn,
when it encountered the
sudden change in voltage
on approaching the sun, the
star itself, was it a voltage,
which was sufficiently
different.
The light just went out.
There would be a flickering
because the boundary
between the two stars
changes, goes in and out.
These plasma spheres pulsate
with the power supply
from the galaxy.
So it would have switched
on and off a few times
and caused clearing.
But, eventually,
once it had really
entered the solar system,
about where the Voyager
spacecraft are
present, then there
would be no longer
any red anode glow.
It would convert from being
a star to a captured planet.
But the captured process, as
I said, is a cometary process.
So it would have switched
from a star to a comet.
They eject material in an
attempt to lose charge,
which means that we
would have suddenly
had our red envelope,
our red light go out,
so the purple light of the
earliest memories of mankind,
known as the "purple
dawn of creation"
I think, in some ways,
would have dissipated.
We would have seen the
stars for the first time.
We would have seen our
central object star
flare, become bright.
And this probably refers
to the "let there be light"
reference in the creation story.
>> If Saturn was a brown dwarf
and possibly the original sun
for planet Earth, is there more
evidence in the ancient text
and possibly the
planets themselves?
>> One of the main questions
facing ancient researchers is,
why was Saturn called the sun?
If you look at the early
Babylonian astronomical texts,
for example, Saturn will
be called "shamash,"
their name for the sun.
And, interestingly,
the same thing
shows up in the Greek
text, where Helios
is identified with Saturn.
Same thing in Egypt.
Same thing in Rome.
We are comparative
scholars, so we
base all of our
research and ideas
on traditions found
around the globe.
And so, thus far, Saturn
has not been identified
in the new world
texts or traditions,
so so far we don't have a
Maya for Saturn, for example.
We don't have an Aztec
myth about Saturn.
And so that's where a
measure of uncertainty
still exists on exactly
what did they mean when
they said Saturn was a sun?
What does that mean from
an astronomical standpoint?
The answers we
really still don't
know at a fundamental level.
But according to Dave
Talbot's research,
he has reconstructed a situation
where the planet Saturn
dominated the sky
in prehistoric times
and appeared as a
sun-like object.
>> Now having that aside, we
then have the problem, well,
how do we form these
planetary systems?
Well, electrogravity
capture tells that story.
And the result of that is that
you have these weird assortment
of so-called
exoplanetary systems
which don't feature anything
like the solar system.
The solar system, with its
widely scattered gas giants,
is a feature of a captured
system, a blended family,
if you like.
All of those
gas-giant-sized objects,
if they were beyond
the sun's influence,
would turn into red dwarfs.
They wouldn't have
to do anything other
than escape the sun's influence
to turn into red dwarf stars.
And this tells you
that the possibility
of the capture of a red dwarf
is much higher than anyone
expects from standard thinking.
>> Could the Cassini mission
have been an exploration
of our home star?
And our stars created
on an electrical circuit
that feeds off of each other
and the neighboring planets?
This would mean that not only
does the universe run off
of electricity, but it has an
infinite connection to a power
source that connects all.
And if we are part of this
power source, where can
we find more evidence of
our first sun, Saturn,
in ancient imagery that matches
this scientific evidence.
>> As Proto-Saturn got
further into the solar system,
it must have reached the point
where that instability became
so great that it actually
ejected a fair proportion
of its core material, which
would be heavy elements,
and it was witnessed
and described.
Saturn was trying
desperately to remove charge
and to satisfy its environment.
The effect would be like
the expulsion of part
of the surface of
Saturn, and it would
have been propelled into space
by the electric force, which
can overcome gravity
with no trouble at all.
So something the size of
Venus is like the cosmic egg
references, and also
the encircling serpent,
the snake biting its tail,
the uroborus imagery.
So Saturn became an
orbiting object around
in the sky about
this central orb.
It, too, fell behind and
joined the entourage.
So we had Venus, Mars, and
Earth was the arrangement.
And this appearance
in the sky gave rise
to the legends of the apple
of the eye and the eye
in the sky, the Egyptian
Ra, the eye of Horus,
and we see this symbolism
even down to today.
>> Could Venus have been
born from Saturn during this
capturing process?
And if so, how does
Venus help give birth
to a new civilization?
>> How does order
come out of chaos?
And that is that, in
the pre-creation cosmos,
you had a situation described
as formlessness, and chaos,
and disorder.
As we have reconstructed
those events,
you have the planet Venus
as the eye of Horus,
cascading around the sky
causing all of these disasters,
swallowing quote "the sun."
At a certain point
in time, Venus
is brought back into stability
with the polar configuration.
And that reordering process
is equated with the creation
of the cosmos.
>> Up next, the electric
universe's understanding
of Venus' placement in the
heavens and the mythological
representation of the
goddess in human culture.